>> Erik Reinert: Now we've
got our main.tf, and
this is really where the meat
of the service deployment is.
We have a really cool standardization
that we've created that you may
have noticed by now
that I'm using over and
over again, which is I'm using
parameter store as a database.
I'm using parameter store as a way
of generating thing in automation or
in other places.
And I'm just saying, put it here,
let me access it later, right?
Just like in App Runner, we want a way of
storing parameters for services and making
sure that they're securely stored, that
we can easily edit them in the future.
We don't wanna have to edit them through
Terraform, we just wanna edit them in
the actual UI and then redeploy
the service if we want, right?
One of the things each service
gets is a set of parameters for
all of the secrets that you give it.
And you'll understand
this more in a second.
But think about the App Runner
that we deployed,
how it has a Google client id,
Google client secret postgres URL.
In this situation,
what we do is we tell the service we
want a secret for
that environment variable.
We want a secret for
this environment variable.
And what it does is it goes out and
it creates parameters with
basically the word example in it or
something like placeholder, right?
Then now that it's created,
you go in and you add your values.
And now you can manage the resource
without having to manage the value in
the resource.
And so,
that's exactly what we're doing here.
We're saying, okay, well,
I still want the UI to be the thing that's
the source of truth, not Terraform.
And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna
say, okay, I need a secret for this,
I need a secret for this,
I need a secret for this.
Go ahead and provision those for me and
then I'll go in later, update them and
redeploy the service.
So this is just like how I like using it.
Some people would say,
just put it in Terraform state and
manage it with Terraform.
But again, for starters,
you don't have time to manage Terraform.
Maybe you just wanna move really fast,
sometimes the UI is nice, right?
Sometimes it's really nice to just
go click real quick deploy done out
the door, right?
Other times it's nice to use Terraform.
But when you use Terraform,
you have to always use it pretty much.
And so, I like this approach better.
Also, if you have development teams,
this makes it a little easier for them.
They don't have to copy code and
push pipelines and stuff.
They have a more direct window.
And then you can create policies that
let certain people do certain things,
read versus write,
like all that kind of stuff.
So basically out of the box secrets
in the service module itself.
We get a log_group per service.
So this again is the permission
side where we say, okay,
let's create a log_group where
all of our logs will go.
So whenever we get a log with a service,
it will automatically get shipped to
CloudWatch and then we can review it.
Here's our execution IAM role that
we created, here's our policy.
You'll see that we attach some,
again, some of those pre existing
policies that we talked about before.
This just makes life easier.
Things like being able to
read only from the registry,
basically allowing us to pull images.
What's nice about this is when
you start using ECR very heavily,
having to give access to clusters and
resources is incredibly annoying.
And so this role becomes very handy
because now you just attach it to
the nodes or attach it to the service and
bam, you're done.
Now it can pull everything from ECR.
You have complete authentication.
You don't have to worry about if.
No, is it gonna be able to
pull this image or not?
No, it's fine.
We gave it the read only role,
it can pull any image.
We also add the container for service.
So this is just a ECS,
my God, the naming, ECS role.
This will make it so
that there's container service
specific things that it'll allow.
We have the main task role and
then finally, [LAUGH] finally we get to
the task definition and
stuff we might recognize a little bit.
So again, you'll notice that there
is in fact a execution role.
There is a task role.
So it does take two separate roles, which
is why we had to define things twice and
all of that.
The family name, this is just something
arbitrary, related to whatever you
want to namespace this, for example, we
call it just the full name of the service.
You could name it the application itself,
you could name it the organization.
It's totally up to you, but
it's just an arbitrary name.
It doesn't have to be anything specific.
Then we get into the container definition.
And as I said earlier, you can write JSON,
but you have to write it really weirdly.
May I introduce the JSON encode function?
[LAUGH] What we're doing here is
we are actually writing pure JSON,
but we're doing it with HCL.
And so I'm using it to first write
in HCL and then use the JSON
decode function to turn it into and
parse it to JSON once it evaluates it.
And so in this configuration we can see
how many CPUs we want if it's essential.
Essential means that it just runs all
the time versus a one time process.
The image where we're actually
pulling the image from memory name.
If we have port mappings,
what's the port, right?
So if we define port in the service,
remember var means that
it's a module value.
So that means we can change and add ports.
So if we add a port, map that container
port for us environment variables.
Remember I told you that we can configure
this service and then create secrets for
it as well.
So here are the secrets.
And then, we actually have
our logging set up as well.
And so you could see that we tell it
that the options are the awslog-group,
which is the group that we
created in cloudwatch the region.
This is why we needed the region, so that
we can tell it where that log group is.
And then a stream prefix which is
just really for the logs themselves.
And that's the task definition.
A couple of things to take away about
task definitions are they are the actual
configuration of your service.
So the way ECS really kind of works
underneath the hood is it has these
documents that represents
your configurations,
kind of like instance templates.
Remember how earlier we
had launch templates?
Sorry, for our instance, this is a launch
template for a task in a container.
So these are not
the containers themselves.
Meaning that if we just created this,
we would get nothing.
This means that, yeah, this is just
the configuration of that service.
What we're gonna do is we're going
to launch a service with this task
definition.
And that's when we're actually
going to get a container.
I just want you to understand that this is
a config more than it is running an actual
service.
We'll get to that in a minute.
And Miguel, that's actually where
the third role comes into play.
So the first two were for
the task definition.
The third one is for the service to
launch that task definition, and so
yeah, we create a service role.
We attach a EC2 container service role,
which is a different one
related to services.
We set up a target group.
So going back to the whole, how does a
load balancer know when there's traffic or
not and how to drain it and whatnot.
This is exactly that connector
to the load balancer.
The target group basically gets assigned
to the load balancer saying, hey,
this target group has a port with this,
it has a deregistration, or basically, how
long it should wait before it completely
takes it out of the load balancer.
And then, what VPC is it attached to?
And then we create a listener that
that target group binds with.
And so the listener then says, okay, well,
we want to forward all traffic to
the target group, which we created, right?
And then we wanna attach
it to port 80 listener,
that we have in the load balancer, right?
So this makes it so that we can listen
on port 80 in the load balancer and
then route to port 5000 or
whatever else that we want, right?
And so, yeah, once we have the target
group, as well as the listener rule in
place, we are now ready to
actually start that service.
And again, just to give that
traffic flow as one more example,
what that means is that when
the load balancer gets your request,
it's first gonna hit the main listener
that we created in the cluster,
and then that listener on 80 will
forward it to the listener rule.
If the listener rule matches, it could be
a host header, it could be a path, right?
So, for example, in the future,
if you wanna make it so
that you have more services
over specific routes,
that would be the listener rule that
it adds for that service, right?
So in this case, we're just gonna do
slash, meaning it's gonna do everything.
And so what will happen is the listener
rule will say, yeah, yeah,
I have something for slash.
And then the listener rule will tell it to
forward that traffic to the target group,
which is the service itself.
And that's this last one right here.
So the aws_ecs_service resource
takes the cluster value,
takes the desired count as well, right?
So right now we're setting it to one.
We do have auto scaling, so we don't
really have to worry about this value.
We can just set it to one.
However, this is also what it
will scale down to, right?
So if you want five or seven by default or
whatever, you can set that to.
Your IAM role, your actual service
IAM role, your task definition.
Again, the thing that we described
earlier, your capacity_provider_strategy.
So this basically says, which capacity
providers do you want it to go into?
Now, what's really cool about this is if
you're in a scenario where you're like,
okay, I want spot instances and I want on
demand, and I want 75% spot and 25% on
demand, then you can set up these provider
strategies to where you can do that.
You can say okay,
base 1 capacity provider spot 75% and
then you can add another one of these and
then you can say base 2 capacity provider
something else weight 25%, right?
And then it will balance the cluster
out or balance the services out
to make sure that you have that much of
a support spread across them as well.
Then we set up the load_balancer.
So we actually just say
the container_name, the container_port and
then that target_group arn.
And now we've actually bound
everything together, right?
So we created the task definition, right?
We created the target rule
from the load balancer.
So load balancer's over here,
task definition on ECS is over here.
And then we join them together
with the service, right?
So the service is the joiner of all of
these things together to actually start
the container.